===== PDF-SEITE 21 =====
25 venticinque (vé'ntichi'nkouè)

SETTIMA LEZIONE (settteemah)

REVISIONE E NOTE
{Revision and notes)

We have now reached the end of the first week of
work. lt wasn't too bad, was it?

Let us summarize what you have learnt until now.
First of all, read the following notes again:

first lesson: (1), (2), (3); lesson 2: (1), (2), (4); lesson 4:
(1); lesson 5: (4); iesson 6: (2).

1 Asyouhaveseen for yourself, Italian pronunciation

is not really difficult. Only a few additional remarks
need to be made.

To begin with, the alphabet:

Here it is: a (ah), b (bee), c (tshee), d (dee), e (eh), f
(effeh), g (djee), fr (ahkkka), / (ee), / (ellleh), m (emm-
meh), n (ennneh), o (au), p (pee), g (koo), r (errreh), s
(essseh), f (tee), u (00), v (vee), z (dsehta).

The letters /, 4, w, x and y do not exist in the Italian
alphabet which has therefore fifteen consonanîts, five
vowels and a symbol, the A, which is only used as
expiained in our Introduction, page X.

Don't forget that the vowels always maintain their clear
sound, even when there are several of them together.
Practice the pronunciation of this word (it might come
in handy!): aiuto (ayyootoh): help!

2 Here now is the present tense of the verbs essere
(to be) and avere (to have):

Essere Avere
sono (io) ho
sei (tu) hai
è (lui/lei) ha
siamo (noi) abbiamo
siete (voi) avete
sono (loro) hanno

ventisei (vé’ntisèi) 26

SEVENTH LESSON

3 Remember there are several forms of you: tu (sin-
gular/familiar), /ei (singular/formal), and voi (plural).
Note: /ei, the formal ‘‘you'’, is always written with a
capital L and is coniugated exactly like the third person
pronoun /ei (small |) meaning ‘she’.

4 Aboutthe definite and indefinite articles.

You might have the impression there are quite a few
articles in Italian! However, they are quite simple to
use. All you have to do is remember a few rules:

The definite article ij/ and the indefinite article un are
used before singular masculine nouns beginning with
a consonant; the plural of the article //is / un biglietto,
il biglietto, i biglietti.

Masculine nouns beginning with s followed by a conso-
nant or by a z take the definite article /o and the
indefinite article uno; the same goes for the words
beginning with a vowel but, in this case, /o becomes /'’
and uno becomes un (without apostrophe). The plural
of /o is gli. Therefore: uno scompartimento, lo scom-
partimento, gli scompartimenti; un amico, l'amico, gli
amici.

The definite article /a and the indefinite article una are
used before all feminine singular nouns; however,
before nouns beginning with a vowel, the a falls out
and in both cases, an apostrophe is added. The plural
of /a is always /e. Thus: una casa (a house), /a casa,
le case; un ‘ora (an hour), /'ora, le ore. Notice that gli
and /e never take an apostrophe.

5 In general, masculine words end with o in the
singular and / in the plural: i/ treno, i treni, whereas
feminine words end with an a in the singuiar and an e
in the plural: /a signorina, le signorine. But there are
also quite a few words (both masculine and feminine)
which end with an e in the singular and an fin the

Lezione 7

===== PDF-SEITE 22 =====
27 ventisetti (vé'ntisèttté)

plural: therefore, to identify the gender of a word and
to make it agree with the adjectives, first look at the
article. A simple example: /a madre (the mother), i/
padre (the father), plural: /e madri, i padri.

6 There are two groups of adjectives in Italian: the
adjectives such as caro, comodo, etc. belong to the
first group and have four forms - caro for the masculine
singular, cara for the feminine singular, cari for the
masculine plural and care for the feminine plural.

Adjectives, such as grande and pesante, belong to the
second group and have only two forms: one for the
masculine and feminine singular, grance, the other for
the masculine and feminine plural, grandi.

7 Here are some of the idiomatic expressions we
have come across in the first six lessons. Read them
once again aloud. if you are not sure about the mea-

LELE LELLA LEA RZEZZEZAZZIZZZZZZZZ ZI LRZLZIZEZEAEEE A È 1

OTTAVA LEZIONE (otttava)

Benvenuto a casa nostra!

1 — Ciao Marco! Benvenuto a casa nostra! Sono
molto contento di vederti.
- Anch'io! (1) (2)

2 — Ma accomodati... Questa è la tua camera
da letto,
3 e quella in fondo al corridoio è la stanza da
bagno. (3)
PRONUNCIA

benvenootau ah kahza naustrra. 1 kautentaun dee vehdehrrrtee. ahn-
keeyau. 2 ahkkkaumaudatee. Kwesta eh la toowa kahmehrrra da
letttauh. 3 kwellla een faundau al kaurrreedauyau.. stahntsa da ba-
nyau.

ventotto (vé'ntottto) 28

ning of any of them, you can find their translations in
paragraph 7.

Ciao, come va?

Pronto? Sono Marco.

Vorrei un'informazione, per favore.
Che guaio!

Accidenti!

Grazie mille!

Credo di si.

Accomodati!

8 Hello, how are you? - Hello? It's Marco. - | would
like some information, please. - What a nuisance! -
Damn! - Thanks a lot! - Yes, | think so. - Come in!

*xx

Don't forget, you must study daily. It is the key to your
success!

KKKAKKAKAKKAKAKKLKAKAKAKAKKAKKKKKLKKxKxKKrtrkkKrkKxkrxxrxkrtrkrkxxxKrKxkKxkxKxXxKrkKxXxKKk

EIGHTH LESSON

Welcome To Our Home!

1 — Hello Marco! Welcome to our home! | am very
glad to see you. - Me too!

2 — Well, make yourseli comfortable... This is your
bedroom (room of bed),

3 and that one, at the end of the corridor, is the

bathroom (room of bath).

NOTES

(1) A casa mia: at (my) home, a casa tua: at your home, a casa di
Paolo: at Paolo's home. Notice the possessive adjective always
follows the world casa and the extensive use of this word. Italians
normally use it when they refer to their home, but also instead of
‘‘apartment’’ as you will see in the following lesson.

(2) Anche Carlo: Carlo too. Anche noi: We too, etc. Anche aiways
precedes the word referred to.

(3) Questo (feminine questa) is used for something close to the
person speaking, whereas quello (feminine quella) is used for
something further away.

Lezione 8

