===== PDF-SEITE 22 =====
27 ventisetti (vé'ntisèttté)

plural: therefore, to identify the gender of a word and
to make it agree with the adjectives, first look at the
article. A simple example: /a madre (the mother), i/
padre (the father), plural: /e madri, i padri.

6 There are two groups of adjectives in Italian: the
adjectives such as caro, comodo, etc. belong to the
first group and have four forms - caro for the masculine
singular, cara for the feminine singular, cari for the
masculine plural and care for the feminine plural.

Adjectives, such as grande and pesante, belong to the
second group and have only two forms: one for the
masculine and feminine singular, grance, the other for
the masculine and feminine plural, grandi.

7 Here are some of the idiomatic expressions we
have come across in the first six lessons. Read them
once again aloud. if you are not sure about the mea-

LELE LELLA LEA RZEZZEZAZZIZZZZZZZZ ZI LRZLZIZEZEAEEE A È 1

OTTAVA LEZIONE (otttava)

Benvenuto a casa nostra!

1 — Ciao Marco! Benvenuto a casa nostra! Sono
molto contento di vederti.
- Anch'io! (1) (2)

2 — Ma accomodati... Questa è la tua camera
da letto,
3 e quella in fondo al corridoio è la stanza da
bagno. (3)
PRONUNCIA

benvenootau ah kahza naustrra. 1 kautentaun dee vehdehrrrtee. ahn-
keeyau. 2 ahkkkaumaudatee. Kwesta eh la toowa kahmehrrra da
letttauh. 3 kwellla een faundau al kaurrreedauyau.. stahntsa da ba-
nyau.

ventotto (vé'ntottto) 28

ning of any of them, you can find their translations in
paragraph 7.

Ciao, come va?

Pronto? Sono Marco.

Vorrei un'informazione, per favore.
Che guaio!

Accidenti!

Grazie mille!

Credo di si.

Accomodati!

8 Hello, how are you? - Hello? It's Marco. - | would
like some information, please. - What a nuisance! -
Damn! - Thanks a lot! - Yes, | think so. - Come in!

*xx

Don't forget, you must study daily. It is the key to your
success!

KKKAKKAKAKKAKAKKLKAKAKAKAKKAKKKKKLKKxKxKKrtrkkKrkKxkrxxrxkrtrkrkxxxKrKxkKxkxKxXxKrkKxXxKKk

EIGHTH LESSON

Welcome To Our Home!

1 — Hello Marco! Welcome to our home! | am very
glad to see you. - Me too!

2 — Well, make yourseli comfortable... This is your
bedroom (room of bed),

3 and that one, at the end of the corridor, is the

bathroom (room of bath).

NOTES

(1) A casa mia: at (my) home, a casa tua: at your home, a casa di
Paolo: at Paolo's home. Notice the possessive adjective always
follows the world casa and the extensive use of this word. Italians
normally use it when they refer to their home, but also instead of
‘‘apartment’’ as you will see in the following lesson.

(2) Anche Carlo: Carlo too. Anche noi: We too, etc. Anche aiways
precedes the word referred to.

(3) Questo (feminine questa) is used for something close to the
person speaking, whereas quello (feminine quella) is used for
something further away.

Lezione 8

===== PDF-SEITE 23 =====
29 ventinove (vé'ntinove)

4 Metti qui la tua valigia e vieni con me in
cucina, ti preparo un caffè. (4)

5 — Checarina la vostra casa!

6 — Si, non è male, è abbastanza comoda.

7 Vedi, questo è il nostro soggiorno, e quello
è il mio studio.

8 Davide mostra a Marco il suo apparta-
menio.
9 Francesca e Davide sono molto contenti: il

loro nuovo appartamento è proprio carino.
10 Questa è la vostra camera da letto, e quello
è il vostro bagno. (N.1)
11 — Che buono questo caffè!

4 metttee kwee la toowa.. vyehnee caun meh een kootsheena..
con kafffeh. 5 keh kahrrreena la vaustrrra kahza! 6 naun eh mahleh..
abbbastantsa kauhmauda. 7 saudddjaurrrnau.. eel meeyau stoodyau.

8 eelsoowau appparrrtamentau. 9 kauntentee: eel laurrrau nwauvau.
11 keh bwaunau kwestau kahfffeh!

Krk

ESERCIZI: 1 Sono molto contento di vederti. 2 Questo
è il soggiorno e quello in fondo al corridoio è il mio
studio. 3 Benvenuto a casa mia. Accomodati! 4 Che
carina la vostra casa! - Si, non è male. 5 Quello è
l'autobus per andare a via Verdi.

***

Mettete le parole che mancano
1 Francesca shows Isabella her apartment.
Francesca .. ... alsabella .. ... appartamento.

2 This is our bedroom and that's my study.

trenta (trè’nta) 30

4 Leave (put) your suitcase (here) and come
(with me) into (the) kitchen, | will make (pre-
pare) you a coffee.

5 — Hownice your house [is]!

6 — Yes, it's not bad, it's quite comfortable.

7 Look, this is our living-room, and that is my
study.

8 Davide shows (to) Marco his apartment.

9 Francesca and Davide are very happy: their

apartment is really lovely.

10 This is your bedroom and that is your bath-
room.

11 — This coffee is so good! (How good this coffee!)

NOTES (continued)
(4) Qui: here, indicates a location close to the person speaking (qua
can also be used) and /i: there, indicates a further location (one

also uses /4).

xx

EXERCISES: 1 | am very pieased to see you. 2 Here is the living-
room and there is my study at the end of the corridor. 3 Welcome to
my home. Make yourself comfortable! 4 Your apartment is so nice!
Yes, it's not bad. 5 There's the bus for Verdi Street.

*xXx

3 Put your suitcase here!

CORREZIONE: 1 mostra - il suo. 2 Questa - la nostra - quello - il mio.
3 la tua. 4 Il loro - proprio. 5 Le valigie - pesanti.

Lezione 8

===== PDF-SEITE 24 =====
31 trentuno (trè'ntouno)

You have now started your second week of work: Keep
practising regularly as you have done so far. It's not
so tedious, is it? Typical Italian phrases have been put
in brackets in the English translation but have been
removed in the exercices so as not to burden the text.
These characteristics should seem quite natural by
now.

KKKTKAKKKKAKKKKKKKKKAKKAKKLKKKAKAKAKKAKLAKAKATAAKAEATAAAKLEATAETEATAAA

NONA LEZIONE (nona)

Come stai?

1 — Come stanno Francesca e i bambini?
2 — Bane, tornano a casa fra poco.
3 Toh, sento arrivare i'ascensore, apriamo la
porta. (1)
— Salve Marco, sei già qui! Come stai? (2)
Ciao Roberto, ciao Lisa, come state?
— Noi stiamo bene, ma sai, il nostro gattino
non sta affatto bene, ha il raffreddore...
7 — Oh, poverino! Bambini, se aprite la mia
valigia, ci trovate un regalo per voi!
8 — Evviva!

DU Aa

9 Davide otfre un aperitivo a Marco.

10 — Lisa, per favore, apri la finestra!
11 — Oggisto bene, non sono più raffreddato.
12 Davide e Francesca offrono ospitalità a

Marco per una settimana. (3) (N.2)

PRONUNCIA

kaumeh sty? i stahnnnau. 2 taurrrnanau ah kahza frrra paukau.
3 toh, sentau lashensaurrreh. 4 salveh... say dja kwee!
5 rrrauberrrtau... leeza... stahteh? 6 noy styamau... sigh.. gahttteenau
naun  sta.. ahfffahtttau ... rrrahfffrrredddaurrreh. 7 pau-
verrreenau.. seh.. tshee trrrauvahteh oonrrregahlau pehrrr voy.
8 evvveeva! 9 coon appperrreeteevau 10 feenestrrra. 11 audddjee
stau.behneh naun saunau pyoo rrrafffrrredddatau. 12 speetaleeta..
pehrrr cona settteemahna.

trentadue 32

From this lesson onwards, we shall drop some of the
words in the Pronunciation Script. They are those you

have already come across and which are net very
difficult to read.

iL RL ALA ALLA AE ZZEZZILZZZE AL 1

NINTH LESSON

How Are You?

How are Francesca and the kids?

Fine, (they’ll) be back home soon.

There, (I) hear the iift coming, let's open the

door.

— Hello Marco, you're already here! How are

you?

Hello Roberto, hello Lisa, how are you?

We are well, but you know our little cat is not

at all well; it has a cold.

7 — Oh, poor thing! Children, if you open my suit-
case, you will find a present for you.

8 — Hurrah!

a Na

D un

9 Davide offers Marco a drink.
10 — Please, Lisa, open the window.
11 — Today I'm well; l'm over (not any more) my
cold.
12 Davide and Francesca invite Marco to stay
(offer hospitality) for a week.
NOTES

(1) Sentire: to hear or to feel. Sento uno strano rumore: | hear a

strange sound. But also: Sento della tenerezza per lei: | feel
tenderness for her.

(2) You will notice different uses of the verb stare: Come stai? is the
singular, tamiliar form. Come state? is the plurali, familiar form.
Capito?

(3) Verbs such as: aprire, offrire, and sentire (-ire infinitive form)
belong to the third group.

Lezione 9

