===== PDF-SEITE 58 =====
99 novantanove

3 /can't. I havea lotto do. - It doesn't matter.

Non ....., ho ....... fare. - fa ......
4 Initaly, one tips a lot.
In italia ............ mance

AAKKXKAKKAKAXKKLKXKxKxKxKXKrKKXKKXKKXKKKAKrKrkrxrkrxKKaxKKKaxXKKxkrkKxKaxxXxKaxKxKKAKAA

VENTOTTESIMA LEZIONE (ventautttehzeema)
REVISIONE E NOTE

Read once again the notes: lesson 22: (3); lesson 23:

(1); lesson 6) (1); lesson 25: (3), (4); lesson 26: (1), (2);

1 In the last six lessons, we have seen

frequently used Italian irregular verbs. An pedina
verb is a 'bugbear" for a foreigner having to cope
with its whims. The most efficient way to master them
is not to learn them by heart but to use them, as you
have done so far, in the dialogues; you'll encounter
them frequently in the course of the following lessons
For the moment (it will do you no harm), read the

complete conjugations of these verbs in
comp. the present

Fare (to do) Dire (io say) Dare (to give)
(io) faccio dico do
(tu) fai dici dai
(lui/lei) fa dice dà
(noi) facciamo diciamo diamo
(voi) fate dite date
(loro) fanno dicono danno
Volere Potere Dovere
(to want) (to be able to) (to have to)
(i0) voglio posso devo
(tu) vuoi puoi devi
(lui/lei) vuole può deve
(noi) vogliamo possiamo dobbiamo
(voi) volete potete dovete
(loro) vogliono poscono devono

cento (tchè'nto) 100

5 Canone visit the cathedral?

. visitare la cattedrale?

CORREZIONE: 1 che - fa. 2 a - un giro - macchina? 3 posso - molto
da - Non - niente. 4 si danno molte. 5 Si può.

e e e e e e e E E E E E E de de de e e e e e e e e e e e e e de e de dd AR

TWENTY-EIGHTH LESSON

Sapere (to know) Uscire (to go out)

(io) so esco

(tu) sai esci
(lui/lei) sa esce
(noi) sappiamo usciamo
(voi) sapete uscite
(loro) sanno escono

2 Herearea few “place” phrases which could be a
source of problems:

davanti alla banca: in front of the bank;

di fronte all'albergo: opposite the hotel;

accanto al letto: beside the bed;

vicino alla stazione: near the station;

lontano dal centro: far from the centre.

3 The most widely used manner of forming a super-
lative in Italian is, as you have already seen, by adding
the suffix issimo: simpatico, simpaticissimo; forte, for-
tissimo etc. But other possibilities also exist, although
they are less frequentiy used; for example, instead of
ricchissimo, one can also say straricco, instead of
rapidissimo, one can also say ultrarapido.
Pochissimo: very little, but the Italian won't hesitate to
say moltissimo and tantissimo as well: the superla-
tives of molto and tanto, the equivalent of which... is
quite difficult to imagine in English!

Lezione 28


===== PDF-SEITE 59 =====
101 centouno

4 Read once again, aloud as you always do, the
following phrases: these are some of the colloquial-

isms of the spoken language which you have encoun-
tered in the last six lessons.

Permesso? - Avanti, prego!

Ho molta fame.

Ho tanta voglia di un caffé.

Fai attenzione!

Com'è tardi! Fate presto!

Vieni a fare un giro? - Con piacere!
Che ne dici di andare a teatro?
Per carità! Sono stanchissimo!
Silenzio per favore!

Non date fastidio agli altri!

Non esageriamo!

E' proprio qui vicino.

KKKKKAKKAKAKAKKAKAAKAKAAKLAAKAAKAKAAAAAKAAKAAAKKAAAAKAAAAKAAAAA

VENTINOVESIMA LEZIONE

Una giornata di Francesca

— Pronto?... Sei tu, Ida? (1)

— Sì, sono io. Ciao, Francesca, come va?

Non c'è male. Hai due minuti?

— Certo, aspetta un attimo: spengo la radio e
accendo una sigaretta. (2)

5 Eccomi qua. Allera: che hai fatto * in questi
ultimi giorni?

da MN

PRONUNCIA

4 spengau... atshendau. 5 ekkkaumee kwah ... ahlllaurrra ... fahtt-
tau ... oolteemee.

* As you have probably guessed, the irregular verbs
you have met until now also have irregular pasts. We
will indicate the irregular past participles with an
asterisk, and every time you see one for the first time
you will find the corresponding past participle at the
end of the Notes. In this last lesson you have seen
fatto, the past participle of fare (to do).

centodue 102

Che belle scarpe!
Non fa niente.

5  Excuse me? - Piease come in! - l'm very hungry. -
| would really like a coffee. Be careful! - How late it is!
Hurry up! - Will you come for a ride? - Gladly! - How
about going to the theatre? - Have pity on me! l'm very
tired! - Quiet, please! - Don't disturb the others! - Let's
not exaggeraie! - It's really quite near here. What
beautiful shoes! - It doesn't matter.

You are now at your twenty-eighth day of Italian and
you are right if you think things are getting a bit though.
However, if you continue with your daily half-hour
study, you'll soon realize that the difficulties will de-
crease.

HE e E e e E E RE E E e e e e E E E e A E E ERE AE ARE RE RARA

TWENTY-NINTH LESSON

A Day with (of) Francesca

î Hello?... Is that you, Ilda?

2 Yes, it's me. Hello, Francesca, how are you (is
it going)?

3 — Not (there isn't) bad. Do you have a couple
4

(two) of minutes to spare?
— Certainly, wait a moment: l’m turning off the
radio and lighting a cigarette.
5 Here | am. Well, what have you been doing (in)
these past few days?

NOTES

(1) Sei tu? - Si, sono io: ls that you? - Yes, it's me. And also: Chi é?
- Siamo noi: Who is it? - It's us. Notice that in phrases such as
these, the Italian always uses the pronouns as subjects (io, tu,
lui, lei, noi, voi, loro) and that the verb essere agrees with the
subject.

(2) Notice the peculiar present tense of the verb spegnere: (i0)
spengo, (tu) spegni, (lui/iei) spegne. (noi) spegniamo, (voi) spe-
gnete, (loro) spengono.

Lezione 29


