===== PDF-SEITE 70 =====
123 centoventitrè

2 lhaven't read the newspapers; | hardly skimmed through them.

Non .. ..... i giornali, .. ho

*osnono een n

3 How many photos have you taken? - l've taken several.

Quante .......... hai ..... ?-.. ho..... parecchie.
4 Do you have any photos? - Yes, | have one.

Hai ..... fotografie? - Si, .. ho...

life ZI RE RILFIATITTATETTE CE

TRENTACINQUESIMA LEZIONE

REVISIONE E NOTE

Read once again the notes: lesson 29: (1), (3);

lesson 30: (1); lesson 32: (4); lesson 33: (2), (4);
lesson 34: (3).

1 In Italian, the perfect (passato prossimo) is formed
with the past participle of the verb preceded by the
auxiliary avere or essere. As you have seen in the
course of the last lessons, there are no major difficul-
ties with the past participle of regular verbs: parlare -
parlato; dovere - dovuto; finire - finito.

Here is the complete conjugation of the perfect of a

verb requiring the auxiliary avere and a verb requiring
the auxiliary essere:

ho parlato (io) sono andato/a
hai parlato (tu) sei andato/a
ha parlato (lui/lei) è andato/a
abbiamo parlato (noi) siamo andati/e
avete parlato (voi) siete andati/e
hanno parlato (loro) sono andati/e

The auxiliary essere is not only used for verbs of
motion but also those which are associated with an

centoventiquattro 124

S /metthe President of the Association and interviewed him.

Ho .......... il Presidente ....' Associazione

CORREZIONE: 1 le melanzane - le - mangiate. 2 ho letto - li - appena
sfogliati. 3 fotografie - fatto - ne - fatte. 4 delle - ne - una. 5 conosciuto
- dell’ - |' - intervistato.

KKAKKXKAKXKKAXAKAKKKAKKAKKLKKKXKKLKKrtxKrxXKrxrxxrxkrkxrtrkkaxxkxxaxkrkrkaxKkxaxkxrkxkkk

THIRTY-FIFTH LESSON

auxiliary of avere in English. A short example: £' molto
invecchiato: He has aged a lot. We will indicate others
when we come across them later on.

With the verb essere, agreement of the past participle
with the subject is compulsory (Carla è partita, Loro
sono usciti, etc.). As in most languages, when a man
and a woman are concerned, or when for example a
man and... fifteen women are involved, the masculine
has the upper hand: Sofia, Angela, Caterina e Valerio
sono partiti...!

2. In Italian, each auxiliary is conjugated with... itself.
Therefore, pay special attention to the past tense of
the verb essere: sono stato, | have been, but literally:
| am been.

Here now is the past tense of essere and avere;

ho avuto (i0) sono stato/a
hai avuto (tu) sei stato/a
ha avuto (lui/lei) è stato/a
abbiamo avuto (noi) siamo stati/e
avete avuto (voi) siete stati/e
hanno avuto (loro) sono stati/e

3 When the verbs volere, potere, and dovere are

Lezione 35

===== PDF-SEITE 71 =====
125 centoventicinque

conjugated in the past tense and are followed by an
infinitive, they must use the same auxiliary as that
infinitive: Ho dovuto prendere il treno: | have had to
take the train, Sono dovuto partire: | have had to leave.
In the spoken language, however, Ho dovuto partire
isn't considered a serious mistake, the Italians them-
selves no longer strictly abide by this rule.

4 Inltalian, when a direct personal pronoun precedes
the verb in the past tense, agreement of the participle
is compulsory: Hai incontrato Lucia? - Si, l'ho incon-
trata stamattina: Have you met Lucia? - Yes, | met her
this morning.

As for the articles, apostrophes are never used with
plural personal pronouns: Hai visto gli amici? - Si, li
ho visti al cinema.

With the pronoun ne (approximately: of them), the
participle must also agree: Hai preso tutte le mele? -
No, ne ho prese solo due: Have you taken all the
apples? - No, l’ve just taken two of them. Here again,
you might hear an ltalian say Ne ho preso solo due,
an accepted error. However, not saying Le ho prese
tutte would be considered a serious mistake.

5 Read aloud, once again, the following phrases.
(Don't worry if you're not sure of some of their mea-
nings: you'll find their translations in the next para-

graph.)

KKXKTXKKLKKAXKXXKXKXAXKXKXKKXLKKKXKKXKKXKKKAXKXxXtKrKXxKKrKKrKrkrkkAkKkKKKkKKkXKXxkXX

TRENTASEIESIMA LEZIONE

Che Cosa Regaliamo a Marco?

1 — Sono già le tre! Devo proprio andare via. (1)
PRONUNCIA
1 djah.

centoventisei 126

Eccomi qua.

Come va? - Non c'è male.

Mi raccomando: arriva puntuale!
Finalmente!... Ti aspetto da venti minuti!
Sei in ritardo, come al solito.

E° di pessimo umore.

Che avete fatto di bello? - Le solite cose...
Venite da noi stasera?

Ho fatto un po' di spesa.

Vado dal salumiere.

Può tenere il resto.

Dici sul serio? - Come no!

Povera me!

6 Here | am. How are you? - Not bad. Piease: be
punciual! At last!... l've been waiting for you for twenty
minutes! You're late, as usual. He's in a very bad
mood. What interesting things have you done? - As
usual... Will you come to our place tonight? i went and
bought a few things. l’m going to the grocer. You can
keep the change. Are you serious? - Of course | am.
Poor me!

You might have noticed that we're now avoiding the
literal translation of certain expressions such as the
past tense of the verb essere. The complete explana-
tions however can be found in the notes and in
lesson 35. This is due to the fact that Italian and English
are quite different languages. You will have to iearn
and spontaneously say, for example sono stato, kno-
wing perfectly well that in Engiish, one says: | have
been.

life ALLEA ZZILZIRI AZZ ZIA TETTE LE TIE o

THIRTY-SIXTH LESSON
What Shali We Offer Marco?

1 — it's three o’clock already! | really must leave
(go away).

NOTES

(1) Carlo é partito per la Cina: Cario has left for China. But Carlo é
andato via da cinque minuti: Cario has lett five minutes ago. Be

Lezione 36

