===== PDF-SEITE 71 =====
125 centoventicinque

conjugated in the past tense and are followed by an
infinitive, they must use the same auxiliary as that
infinitive: Ho dovuto prendere il treno: | have had to
take the train, Sono dovuto partire: | have had to leave.
In the spoken language, however, Ho dovuto partire
isn't considered a serious mistake, the Italians them-
selves no longer strictly abide by this rule.

4 Inltalian, when a direct personal pronoun precedes
the verb in the past tense, agreement of the participle
is compulsory: Hai incontrato Lucia? - Si, l'ho incon-
trata stamattina: Have you met Lucia? - Yes, | met her
this morning.

As for the articles, apostrophes are never used with
plural personal pronouns: Hai visto gli amici? - Si, li
ho visti al cinema.

With the pronoun ne (approximately: of them), the
participle must also agree: Hai preso tutte le mele? -
No, ne ho prese solo due: Have you taken all the
apples? - No, l’ve just taken two of them. Here again,
you might hear an ltalian say Ne ho preso solo due,
an accepted error. However, not saying Le ho prese
tutte would be considered a serious mistake.

5 Read aloud, once again, the following phrases.
(Don't worry if you're not sure of some of their mea-
nings: you'll find their translations in the next para-

graph.)

KKXKTXKKLKKAXKXXKXKXAXKXKXKKXLKKKXKKXKKXKKKAXKXxXtKrKXxKKrKKrKrkrkkAkKkKKKkKKkXKXxkXX

TRENTASEIESIMA LEZIONE

Che Cosa Regaliamo a Marco?

1 — Sono già le tre! Devo proprio andare via. (1)
PRONUNCIA
1 djah.

centoventisei 126

Eccomi qua.

Come va? - Non c'è male.

Mi raccomando: arriva puntuale!
Finalmente!... Ti aspetto da venti minuti!
Sei in ritardo, come al solito.

E° di pessimo umore.

Che avete fatto di bello? - Le solite cose...
Venite da noi stasera?

Ho fatto un po' di spesa.

Vado dal salumiere.

Può tenere il resto.

Dici sul serio? - Come no!

Povera me!

6 Here | am. How are you? - Not bad. Piease: be
punciual! At last!... l've been waiting for you for twenty
minutes! You're late, as usual. He's in a very bad
mood. What interesting things have you done? - As
usual... Will you come to our place tonight? i went and
bought a few things. l’m going to the grocer. You can
keep the change. Are you serious? - Of course | am.
Poor me!

You might have noticed that we're now avoiding the
literal translation of certain expressions such as the
past tense of the verb essere. The complete explana-
tions however can be found in the notes and in
lesson 35. This is due to the fact that Italian and English
are quite different languages. You will have to iearn
and spontaneously say, for example sono stato, kno-
wing perfectly well that in Engiish, one says: | have
been.

life ALLEA ZZILZIRI AZZ ZIA TETTE LE TIE o

THIRTY-SIXTH LESSON
What Shali We Offer Marco?

1 — it's three o’clock already! | really must leave
(go away).

NOTES

(1) Carlo é partito per la Cina: Cario has left for China. But Carlo é
andato via da cinque minuti: Cario has lett five minutes ago. Be

Lezione 36

===== PDF-SEITE 72 =====
127 centoventisette

2 Ho moltissime cose da fare: devo fare delle
spese e vorrei anche comprare un regalino
a Marco. (2)

3 ida, perchè non mi accompagni? - Perchè

no, ti accompagno volentieri, ma non ho la
macchina, lo sai.

4 — Macel'ho io! E' proprio qui all'angolo... (3)
5 Vorrei anche fare un regalo a Lorenza,

l'amica di Marco, che mi è molto simpatica.
6 Ma per lei ho già deciso *: le prendo il

catalogo della mostra dei disegni di Leo-
nardo da Vinci. (5)

7 — Ea Marco, che cosa gli regali? (4) (6)
8 — Non so, tu che cosa mi suggerisci?
9 — Perchè non gli regali una cravatta?
10 — La solita cravatta! No, troppo banale...
11 — Un pullover? - Troppo caro.
12 — Una camicia? - Non conosco le sue mis-
ure...
13 — Allora non so proprio.
14 — Ho un'idea! So che Marco va spessissimo
a sciare...
15 gli posso comprare un bel berretto di lana
rossa! (N.1)

3 ahkkkaumpahnyee?... vaulentyehrrree. 4 tsheh_lau eeyau... ahn-
gaulau. 5 seempahteeka 6 detsheezau 8 soodddjerrreeshee
12 kahmeetsha 14 spessseessseemau... sheeahrrreh.

QUESTO È UN
REGALINO
PER LORENZA.

centoventotto 128

2 l've so much to do: | have to buy a few things
and l’d also like to buy a small present for (to)
Marco.

3 Why don't you come with (accompany) me, Ida?

— Why not, l’Il be glad to come with you, but |
don't have my [the] car, you know.

4 — Buti have mine (it)! It's just there (here) on (at)
the corner...

5 l'd also like to make a gift to Lorenza, Marco's
friend; | think she’s very nice (sympathetic to
me).

6 But for her l've already decided: l'll get her the
catalogue of the exhibition of Leonardo da
Vinci's drawings.

T — Andwhatare you getting (offering) for Marco?
8 — | don't know, what do you suggest (me)?
9 — Why don't you give him a tie?

10 — The usual neck-tie! No, too ordinary...

11 — A pullover? - Too expensive.

12 — A shirt? - | don't know his size...

13 — Then | really don't know.

14 — l have an idea! | know Marco goes skiing very

often...
15 — | could buy him a nice red woollen cap!

NOTES (continued)

careful: in Italian, partire is used simply in the event of travel,
whereas andar via is used when the ‘’departure’’ is for a short
period.

(2) Tavolo - tavolino; pianta - piantina; in these cases, the suffix -ino
means: little.

(3) Also: Lo dici tu!: That's what you say! Oggi pago io!: l'm the one
who pays today! Lo ha visto lei: She's the one who saw him. Lo
ha preso Giovanni: Giovanni's the one who took it.

Notice that in these emphatic sentences, the subject follows the
verb. And, in Italian, for the 1st and 2nd person singular, io and
tu are used.

(4) Notice: i mostro: the monster; but /a mostra: the Fair, the
exhibition; i/ pianto: the tears; but /a pianta: the plant; i/ porto:
the harbour; but /a porta: the door.

(5) Che cosa regali a Maria? - Le regalo una stampa antica: What
are you giving (offering) Maria? - I'm giving her an antique print.
But: Che cosa regali a Marco? - Gli regalo una stampa antica:
What are you giving Marco? - I'm giving him an antique print.
[To] her = /e; [to] him = gli.

* deciso, past participle of decidere.

Lezione 36

===== PDF-SEITE 73 =====
129 centoventinove

ESERCIZI: i Devo andar via: ho molte cose da fare.
2 Questo è un regalino per Lorenza. 3 Devo fare delle
spese, mi accompagni? 4 Che cosa hai comprato? -
Una cravatta, una camicia, un pullover. 5 La mia
macchina è proprio qui all'angolo. 6 La solita cravatta!
No, troppo banale.

Mettete le parole che mancano
1 Whatare you giving Marco? - l'm giving him a woollen cap.
Che cosa ...... a Marco? - ......... un berretto .. lana.
2 AndLorenza?- l'm giving her the catalogue of the Fair.
E alorenza? - .. ...... il catalogo ...........

3 /met Marco last year, but | don't krow Lorenza.

Marco, . ‘ho .......... l'anno scorso, ma Lorenza non ..

4 Idon'tknow. | haven't decided yet.

Non .. Non .. ancora ......

ERETTE TITTI TE TELI LLEZZEZEILE zi siii

TRENTASETTES!IMA LEZIONE

All'Ufficio Postale

1 — Prima di prendere la macchina vorrei pas-
sare un attimo alla posta.
2 — C'è unufficio postale proprio qui di fronte.
3 — Devo fare un telegramma ai Tonini,
PRONUNCIA

2 oofffeetshau paustahieh. 3 telegrrranmmma.

centotrenta 130

EXERCISES: 1 | must leave: l’ve a lot to do. 2 This is a small present
for Lorenza. 3 | must buy a few things, will you come with me? 4 What
have you bought? - A tie, a shirt, a pullover. 5 My car is right there by
the corner. 6 Always the same tie! No, it's too ordinary.

5 What do you recommend (to me)? A nice pullover or a nice shirt?
Che cosa .. ....... ..? Un ... pullover o una ..... ca-

micia?

CORREZIONE: 1 regali - gli regalo - di. 2 le regalo - della mostra. 3 |
- conosciuto - la conosco. 4 so - ho - deciso. 5 mi suggerisci? - bel -
bella.

xxx

The further you advance, the more you'll notice that
the structure of the sentence in Italian is not the same
as in English. Every time you fall upon something
which strikes you (in this last lesson, for instance, Ce
l’ho io), read very carefully the examples provided in
the Notes, so that you may be familiar with the struc-
tures inherent to the Italian language.

RETE TEE TITTI TELE LELE LE 5 Lidia

THIRTY-SEVENTH LESSON

At the Post Office

1 — Before taking the car, l’d like to stop (pass) for
a moment at the post [office].

2 — There's a postoffice right there (here) in front
[of us].

3 — | must send (do) a telegram to the Toninis,

Lezione 37

