===== PDF-SEITE 81 =====
145 centoquarantacinque centoquarantasei 146

QUARANTUNESIMA LEZIONE FORTY-FIRST LESSON
Andiamo a fare delle spese! Let's Go Shopping

1 E adesso Ida e Francesca vanno a fare la 1 And now Ilda and Francesca are going (to do)

divini 2 Fietno ill go to the fruit shop (fruit sal
. . î i irst they will go to the fruit shop (fruit sales-

2 ... Vanno prima dal fruttivendolo. - Vorrei man). - l'd like some apples, please.
delle mele, per favore. i 3 — How many (of them) do you want? - One kilo.

3 — Quante ne vuole? - Un chilo. E vorrei anche And | would also like two kilos of oranges and
due chili di arance e delle banane. bananas.

4 — Le vuole molto mature, le banane? - No, le 4 — Do you want very ripe bananas? - No, | prefer
preferisco un po’ acerbe. Può darmi anche them a bit green. Can you also give me some
del basilico? basil?

; - 5 ... Then they go to the delicatessen.
... Poi vanno dal salumiere. i

: — Un attimo di pazienza, signora, La servo 6 — Just a minute (moment of patience), Madam,

subito. Ectorhi a Lei Che Gaga Fesldeta? l’Il serve you immediately. Here | am (for you).

What would you like? °

7 — Vorrei soltanto mezzo chilo di pane e tre 7 — | just want half a kilo of bread and three
etti di prosciutto cotto. (1) hundred grammes of cooked ham.
8 — Posso consigliarLe il nostro prosciutto 8 — Maylrecommend you our raw ham? It's really
crudo? E' una vera delizia con qualche delicious with a few slices of melon.
fettina di melone! i i
9 ... And finally, they go to the chemist. - Good
9 ... E infine vanno in farmacia. - Buongiorno, | ‘morning, Madam. What can | do for you (In
in ch sa posso servirLa? (2) which thing can | serve you)?
HGO C99 COSA P 7 li 10 — Give (serve) me [with] a tube of toothpaste and
10 — Mi serve un dentifricio e un buon spazzolino a good toothbrush, not too hard.
da denti, non troppo duro. 11 — l'Il show you the different kinds we have.
11 — Le faccio vedere i tipi che abbiamo. 12 | suggest you take this one, which is very soft.
12 Le suggerisco di prendere questo, che è Would you like anything else (other)?
molto morbido. Desidera altro? (3) 13 — Yes,a tube of aspirin and a box of bandaids.
13 — Si, un tubo di aspirina e una scatola di
cerotti. NOTES
(1) Un etto: 100 grammes. One can just as well say due etti or
duecento grammi.
(2) Two different meanings for the verb servire (remember lesson
PRONUNCIA 40, mi servono due paia di collant, and here, in che cosa posso
2 frrroottteevendaulau. 3 kwanteh - keelau - ahrrrantsheh. servirLa): to be useful; look now at the next sentence, mi serve
4 ahtshehrrrbeh. 5 sahloomyehrrreh. 7 prrraushootau. 8 kaun- un dentifricio: to serve with. i
seelyarrrleh. 9 eenfeeneh... fahrrrmatsheeya. 10 denteefrrree- (3) Don't misunderstand the sense of morbido which means soft.
tshau... spahtsauleenau...dentee. Morbid: morboso.

Lezione 41


===== PDF-SEITE 82 =====
147 centoquarantasette

14 — Questo è il suo scontrino. Le faccio un
pacchetto. Intanto si accomodi alla
cassa. (4) (N.3)

15 ... Ecco fatto! E forse resta loro anche il
tempo di andare a vedere la mostra...

14 skauhntrrreenau - pahkkketttau - see, ahkkkaumaudee.

ESERCIZI: 1 Vorrei un etto di prosciutto cotto. 2 Mi dà
un chilo di arance e delle banane molto mature, per
favore. - Quante ne vuole? - Tre. 3 Posso darLe un
buon spazzolino da denti, molto morbido. 4 Questo è
il suo scontrino, si accomodi alla cassa. 5 In che cosa
posso servirLa? 6 Ecco fatto! Abbiamo finito di fare la
spesa.
Mettete le parole che mancano
1 Firstlda and Francesca go to the fruit shop.

Ida e Francesca ..... prima ... fruttivendolo.
2 Just a minute, Madam. l'Il be with you immediately.

Un attimo, signora. .. servo ......
3 l'mshowing you the different kinds we have.

Liv vedere i diversi modelli ... .......
4 Mayl recommend you our raw ham?

Posso ............ il nostro. ......... ?

5 Maybe we have time to pass by the delicatessen.

Le .. resta iltempo .. passare ... salumiere.

centoquarantotto 148

14 — This is your cash-register ticket. l'Il make (you)

a parcel. In the meantime, please go to the
cashier. i

15 se There, that's done! And perhaps they still
have time to go and see the Fair...

NOTES (continued)

(4) La = Lei, in a sentence such as: La accompagno a casa
signorina: l'Il accompany you home, miss. Le = a Lei: Le do il
mio giornale, dottore: | give you my newspaper, sir (doctor).

EXERCISES:1 |would like a hundred grammes of cooked ham. 2 Give
me one kilo of oranges and some very ripe bananas, please. - How
many do you want? - Three. 3 | can give you a good toothbrush, very
soft. 4 This is your cash-register ticket, please go to the cashier
5 Whatcan Ido for you? 6 That's it! We've finished with the shopping.

VORREI DELLE MELE
PER FAVORE.

CORREZIONE: 1 vanno - dal. 2 La - subito. 3 Le faccio - che abbiamo.
4 consigliarLe - prosciutto. 5 Forse - ci - di - dal.

Lezione 41

===== PDF-SEITE 83 =====
149 centoquarantanove

QUARANTADUESIMA LEZIONE
REVISIONE E NOTE

Read once again the notes: lesson 36: (1), (3);
lesson 37: (1), (2), (4); lesson 38: (2), (3); lesson 39: (2),
(4); lesson 40: (1); lesson 41: (4).

1 Let's try and classify all these pronouns. To begin
with, let's have a look at all the direct and indirect
personal pronouns.

direct indirect

mi (to me) me (me)

ti (to you) ti (you)

lo (to him) gli (him)

la (to her) le (her)

ci (to us) ci (US)

vi (to you) vi (yOU)

li (to them, masc.) gli/loro (them)
le (to them, fem.) gli/loro (them)

These pronoun forms are called weak, indicating they
don't have tonic stresses. They have to be pronounced
as though they formed a single word with the verb thai
follows. In fact, they always precede the verb, the only
exception being /oro, which follows the verb (and
which is stressed).

Next, there are the pronoun forms called strong: me
(me), te (you), /ui (he/him), /ei (she/her), noi (we), voi
(you), /oro (they/them) which are emphasized and take
tonic stresses; it's precisely with these that in mid
sentence the voice comes to a halt.

Ti parlo: I'm speaking to you; but Parlo a te, capisci?:
It's you l'm speaking to, do you understand?

Ci accompagni a casa?: Will you accompany us home?
But Accompagni prima noi o prima loro?: Who will you
accompany first, (them or us)?
Furthermore, with the prepositions per, con, fra, di,

centocinquanta 150

FORTY-SECOND LESSON

etc., the strong forms are always used: Paolo mi ha
parlato di te: Paolo has spoken to me about you.

2 We have said that the weak forms of personal
pronouns normally precede the verb, and you have
seen that the same goes for ne and ci. There are,
however, a few exceptions -- you have met two of them
in the preceding lessons: ecco and the verb in the
infinitive; Eccone un altro: Here's another one; Vado a
comprarlo: lm going to buy it; Non voglio andarci: |
don't want to go (there), etc.

In all these cases, the pronoun merges to form a
single word, with ecco or the infinitive (the latter
dropping the final e). In spite of the supplementary
syllable, the tonic stress remains in the same position.
An identical structure is used with the imperative and
the gerund forms as we will see later on.

3 Another thing about conventional phrases: when
speaking to someone with Lei, the third person femi-
nine pronouns /a and /e are always used; La chiamo
domani, dottore: \'’ll call you tomorrow, Doctor; Le
presento mio figlio, signor Merli: This is my son, Mr.
Merli. Bizarre, isn't it? Note that we have written these
pronouns in capital letters: it is the custom in formal
or official written communication. Knowing this will
help you identify this polite but rather complex form.

4. Readaloud once again, as usual, the spoken lan-

guage phrases which you have encountered over the
course of the last six lessons:

Devo andar via.

Ho delle spese da fare.

Che noia! .

Guarda che fila!

Scrivi quello che vuoi, ma fai presto.
Auguri!

Brava!

Sconti eccezionali!

Lezione 42

