===== PDF-SEITE 83 =====
149 centoquarantanove

QUARANTADUESIMA LEZIONE
REVISIONE E NOTE

Read once again the notes: lesson 36: (1), (3);
lesson 37: (1), (2), (4); lesson 38: (2), (3); lesson 39: (2),
(4); lesson 40: (1); lesson 41: (4).

1 Let's try and classify all these pronouns. To begin
with, let's have a look at all the direct and indirect
personal pronouns.

direct indirect

mi (to me) me (me)

ti (to you) ti (you)

lo (to him) gli (him)

la (to her) le (her)

ci (to us) ci (US)

vi (to you) vi (yOU)

li (to them, masc.) gli/loro (them)
le (to them, fem.) gli/loro (them)

These pronoun forms are called weak, indicating they
don't have tonic stresses. They have to be pronounced
as though they formed a single word with the verb thai
follows. In fact, they always precede the verb, the only
exception being /oro, which follows the verb (and
which is stressed).

Next, there are the pronoun forms called strong: me
(me), te (you), /ui (he/him), /ei (she/her), noi (we), voi
(you), /oro (they/them) which are emphasized and take
tonic stresses; it's precisely with these that in mid
sentence the voice comes to a halt.

Ti parlo: I'm speaking to you; but Parlo a te, capisci?:
It's you l'm speaking to, do you understand?

Ci accompagni a casa?: Will you accompany us home?
But Accompagni prima noi o prima loro?: Who will you
accompany first, (them or us)?
Furthermore, with the prepositions per, con, fra, di,

centocinquanta 150

FORTY-SECOND LESSON

etc., the strong forms are always used: Paolo mi ha
parlato di te: Paolo has spoken to me about you.

2 We have said that the weak forms of personal
pronouns normally precede the verb, and you have
seen that the same goes for ne and ci. There are,
however, a few exceptions -- you have met two of them
in the preceding lessons: ecco and the verb in the
infinitive; Eccone un altro: Here's another one; Vado a
comprarlo: lm going to buy it; Non voglio andarci: |
don't want to go (there), etc.

In all these cases, the pronoun merges to form a
single word, with ecco or the infinitive (the latter
dropping the final e). In spite of the supplementary
syllable, the tonic stress remains in the same position.
An identical structure is used with the imperative and
the gerund forms as we will see later on.

3 Another thing about conventional phrases: when
speaking to someone with Lei, the third person femi-
nine pronouns /a and /e are always used; La chiamo
domani, dottore: \'’ll call you tomorrow, Doctor; Le
presento mio figlio, signor Merli: This is my son, Mr.
Merli. Bizarre, isn't it? Note that we have written these
pronouns in capital letters: it is the custom in formal
or official written communication. Knowing this will
help you identify this polite but rather complex form.

4. Readaloud once again, as usual, the spoken lan-

guage phrases which you have encountered over the
course of the last six lessons:

Devo andar via.

Ho delle spese da fare.

Che noia! .

Guarda che fila!

Scrivi quello che vuoi, ma fai presto.
Auguri!

Brava!

Sconti eccezionali!

Lezione 42

===== PDF-SEITE 84 =====
151 centocinquantuno

Ti serve qualche cosa?
No, niente. Neanche a me.

Vado a fare la spesa. ©

In che cosa posso servirLa?
Mi dispiace, non ne ho.

Si accomodi alla cassa.
Ecco fatto!

Krk
hd e e e e e e de e e e E i e e e e de e dee de RE

QUARANTATREESIMA LEZIONE

Un vecchio amico

Î Marco sta prendendo un caffè in un bar del
centro, (1)

2 un giovanotto si avvicina al suo tavolo:

3 — Marco de Santis...! Che sorpresa! Ti ricordi
di me? Sono Filippo Mari...

— Certo che mi ricordo! i

5 Non ho più avuto tue notizie dalia fine del
servizio militare...

6 ... Perchè non ti siedi un momento? Mi fa
molto piacere vederti. —

7 — Anche a me!... Ma tu non abiti a Roma? Che

fai da queste parti? (2) se

Sono venuto per un colloquio di lavoro.

E com'è andato? .
E' andato benissimo. Mi hanno assunto

Comincio a lavorare tra un mese. (3)

owe
II

CIA
o dleuvenutita 6 syehdee. 8 kaulllaukyau. 10 kaumeentshau.

NOTES
] doccia!: He can't
nire ai telefono, sta facendo la i
m Von pene Thone: he's taking a shower! Stanno discutendo già
da tre ore: They've been debating for three hours already.

=

centocinquantadue 152

5 | must leave. l've some shopping to do. What a
nuisance! Look at the queue! Write whatever you like,
but hurry up! Best wishes! Well done! Special dis-
counts! Do you need anything? No, nothing. Neither do
I. l'm going shopping. What can | do for you? l'm sorry,

I don't have any. Please go to the cash-desk. There,
that's done!

lnlieliofiofiofiofiotofe foi. LLAZZZZZIZIZISIIZI TIT ITITETT TT TOTO

FORTY-THIRD LESSON
An Old Friend

Marco is having coffee in a coffee-shop in the
city centre,

a young man comes up (approaches) to his
table: .

— Marco de Santis...! What [a] surprise! Do you
remember (of) me? l’m Filippo Mari...

— Of course (that) | remember [you]!
| haven't heard (had any news) from you since
the end of military service...
... Why don't you sit down [for] a moment? I'm
very (it makes me) pleased to see you:

— (To) me too!... But don't you live in Rome? What

are you doing around here?

l've come for a job interview.

And how did it go?

It went very well. | got the job (they hired me).
| start work in a month.

—b

© 0 0 NI (e,) U a w N

NOTES (continued)

(2) Sa se c'è una farmacia da queste parti?: Do you know if there's

a chemist around here? /o abito da queste parti: | live around
here.

(3) Com'è andato il tuo viaggio?: How was your trip? Come sono
andate le vacanze, Piero?: How were your holidays, Piero?

assunto: past participle of assumere.

Lezione 43

